tests/README.md, before:

# Tests for EX1
in this file I will explain the tests that I wrote for the first exercise.

there are 6 main functions that I tested:
1. `loadGraph`
2. `isConnected`
3. `shortestPath`
4. `isContainsCycle`
5. `isBipartite`
6. `negativeCycle`

in each function I tested the function with different types of graphs:
* directed graph
* undirected graph

for the `shortestPath` function I tested the function with different types of graphs:
* unweighted graph
* weighted non-negative graph
* weighted negative graph

<hr>

### `loadGraph` for Directed Graph

will check if the `loadGraph` function works correctly for a directed graph.

there are 3 tests in this file:
1. test if the graph is loaded correctly
2. pass a non square matrix so the function should raise `invalid_argument` exception
3. pass a matrix that have a non `NO_EDGE` value on the main diagonal so the function should raise `invalid_argument` exception
4. pass an empty matrix that represent an empty graph (no vertices and no edges)
   
### `loadGraph` for Undirected Graph
smae as the previous test but for an undirected graph.
in this test case I added a test to check if the matrix is symmetric or not.
so tets case 4 will pass a non symmetric matrix and the function should raise `invalid_argument` exception.


<hr>

### `isConnected` for Directed Graph
to check if a directed graph is connected or not.

we have 4 tests in this file:
1. this graph is connected, and looks like this:
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A-->B;
    B-->C;
```

2. this graph is not connected, and looks like this:
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A<-->B;
    A<-->C;
    B<-->C;
    C<-->D;
    E;
```

    we can see that the the node 4 is not connected to any other node.

3. a graph with a single node, so it should be connected.


4. a graph that a have one root, what he not the first node in the matrix (so the dfs will not start from him), the function should return true.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A-->B;
    B-->C;
    C-->A;
    D-->B;
```

    in this graph the node `D` is the root, and the dfs will start from the node `A`.

5.  an empty graph, so it should be connected.
   

### `isConnected` for Undirected Graph
in undirected graph the function should return true if the graph is connected, and false otherwise.

the test are very similar to the previous test, but the graph is undirected.

1. first connected graph:
```mermaid
    graph LR;
    A --- B;
    B --- C;
```

2. not connected graph:
```mermaid
graph TD;
    A --- B;
    A --- C;
    B --- C;
    D --- C;
    E;
```

3. a graph with a single node, so it should be connected.
```mermaid
graph TD;
    A;
```

4. an empty graph, so it should be connected.

<hr>

### shortestPath

#### exceptions checks

in this test case we will check that the function will throw an exception the source node or the destination node are invalid.

<hr>

#### `shortestPath` for Directed Graph

##### unweighted graph

1. first graph:
```mermaid
    graph LR;
    A --> B;
    B --> C;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> B -> C`


2. second graph:
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A<-->B;
    A<-->C;
    B<-->C;
    C<-->D;
    D<-->E;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `E` is `A -> C -> D -> E`
    the shortest path from `A` to itself is `A`

3. a graph with no edge between the nodes, so there is no path between any two nodes.

4. send an invalid node to the function, so the function should raise an exception. (we cant send a negative node to the function)

##### weighted non-negative graph

1.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |3| B;
    B --> |1| A;
    B --> |5| C;
```

* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `3`
* the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> B -> C` with a cost of `8`
* the shortest path from `B` to `C` is `B -> C` with a cost of `5`
* there is no path from `C` to `A`
* the shortest path from `A` to `A` is `A` with a cost of `0`

2.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |100| B;
    A --> |30| C;
    C --> |25| D;
    D --> |50| E;
    E --> |21| B;
```
    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `100`

3. same graph as the previous one, but now (D,E)= 1 
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |100| B;
    A --> |30| C;
    C --> |25| D;
    D --> |1| E;
    E --> |21| B;
```
    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> C -> D -> E -> B` with a cost of `77`

##### weighted negative graph
1.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |-1| B;
    B --> |1| A;
    B --> |-5| C;
```

* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `-1`
* the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> B -> C` with a cost of `-6`
* the shortest path from `B` to `C` is `B -> C` with a cost of `-5`
* there is no path from `C` to `A`
* the shortest path from `A` to `A` is `A` with a cost of `0`


2.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |-100| B;
    A --> |-30| C;
    C --> |-25| D;
    D --> |-50| E;
    E --> |-21| B;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> C -> D -> E -> B` with a cost of `-226`

3. same as the previous one, but now (A,B) = -1000
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |-1000| B;
    A --> |-30| C;
    C --> |-25| D;
    D --> |-50| E;
    E --> |-21| B;
```

4. this graph will fail if we will run `dijkstra` algorithm, on him, but the bellman-ford will work correctly.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |0| B;
    A --> |2| D;
    A --> |-2| E;
    B --> |-1| C;
    D --> |-8| E;
    E --> |2| C;
```


    the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> D -> E -> C` with a cost of `-4`.


5. a graph with a negative cycle, so the function should raise an exception.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |-1| B;
    B --> |-1| C;
    C --> |1| A;
```

    the negative cycle is `A -> B -> C -> A`


<hr>

#### `shortestPath` for Undirected Graph

##### unweighted graph
1. first graph:
```mermaid
    graph LR;
    A --- B;
    B --- C;
```

* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B`
* the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> B -> C`
* the shortest path from `B` to `C` is `B -> C`
* there is no path from `C` to `A`
* the shortest path from `A` to `A` is `A`

2. second graph:
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    A --- C;
    B --- C;
    C --- D;
    D --- E;
```

* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B`
* the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> C`
* the shortest path from `A` to `E` is `A -> C -> D -> E`

3. empty graph, so there is no path between any two nodes.

4. graph with 3 nodes, and just A and B are connected.
    
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    C;
```

* there is no path from `A` to `C`
* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B`
* there is no path from `B` to `C`
* the shortest path from `B` to `A` is `B -> A`


#### weighted non-negative graph

1. 
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |3| B;
    B --- |5| C;
```

* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `3`
* the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> B -> C` with a cost of `8`
* the shortest path from `B` to `C` is `B -> C` with a cost of `5`
* the shortest path from `C` to `A` is `C -> B -> A` with a cost of `8`
* the shortest path from `A` to `A` is `A` with a cost of `0`

2. 
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |100| B;
    A --- |30| C;
    B --- |1| C;
    C --- |25| D;
    D --- |50| E;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> C -> B` with a cost of `31`

3. same as the previous one, but now {B,C} = 1000
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |100| B;
    A --- |30| C;
    B --- |1000| C;
    C --- |25| D;
    D --- |50| E;
```
    
        the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `100`

4. 
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |100| B;
    A --- |30| C;
    B --- |9| E;
    C --- |10| D;
    D --- |50| E;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> C -> D -> E -> B` with a cost of `99`

5. same as the previous one, but now {B,E}=10

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |100| B;
    A --- |30| C;
    B --- |10| E;
    C --- |10| D;
    D --- |50| E;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `100` or `A -> C -> D -> E -> B` with a cost of `100`

##### weighted negative graph
1. 
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |10| B;
    B --- |-5| C;
    A --- |-1| C;
```


<hr>

### `isContainsCycle` for Directed Graph

1. graph with a cycle of 3 nodes
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> B;
    B --> C;
    C --> A;
```

2. graph with a cycle of 3 nodes
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> B;
    B --> C;
    C --> D;
    D --> B;
```

3. graph with a cycle of 2 nodes, that dont start from the first node in the matrix
```mermaid
graph TD;
    A --> B;
    C --> D;
    D --> C;
    C --> A;
```

4. connected graph without a cycle
```mermaid
graph TD;
    A --> B;
    A --> C;
    B --> C;

```

1. graph with a cycle of 3 nodes

we have more then one cycle in this graph.

```mermaid
graph TD;
    A --> B;
    A --> C;
    B --> A;
    B --> C;
    C --> A;
    C --> B;
    D --> C;
    D --> E;
    E --> D;
```

### `isContainsCycle` for Undirected Graph

> as mentioned before, this is **not** considered a cycle in an undirected graph.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
```


1. graph without a cycle
    
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    B --- C;
```

2. graph with cycle
    
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    B --- C;
    C --- A;
```

3. graph with cycle that dont start from the first node in the matrix
    
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    B --- C;
    C --- D;
    D --- B;
```
<hr>


### `isBipartite` for Directed Graph

1. a bipartite graph, that the coloring can fail if we dont color in the right way.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    B --> A;
```

### `isBipartite` for Undirected Graph


1. a graph with a odd cycle, so the function should return false.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    A --- D;
    A --- C;
    B --- C;
    C --- D;
```

2.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    A --- D;
    B --- C;
    C --- D;
```
<hr>

### `negativeCycle` for Directed Graph

1. graph with a negative cycle of 3 nodes
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |-1| B;
    B --> |-1| C;
    C --> |1| A;
```

2.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |5| B;
    A --> |3| C;
    C --> |-2| D;
    D --> |-1| E;
    E --> |-1| C;

```

### `negativeCycle` for Undirected Graph

Commit message:

Update test.cpp with printGraph test case

tests/README.md, after:

# Tests for EX1
in this file I will explain the tests that I wrote for the first exercise.

there are 6 main functions that I tested:
1. `loadGraph`
2. `printGraph`
3. `isConnected`
4. `shortestPath`
5. `isContainsCycle`
6. `isBipartite`
7. `negativeCycle`


in each function I tested the function with different types of graphs:
* directed graph
* undirected graph

for the `shortestPath` function I tested the function with different types of graphs:
* unweighted graph
* weighted non-negative graph
* weighted negative graph

<hr>

### `loadGraph` for Directed Graph

will check if the `loadGraph` function works correctly for a directed graph.

there are 4 tests in this file:
1. test if the graph is loaded correctly
2. pass a non square matrix so the function should raise `invalid_argument` exception
3. pass a matrix that have a non `NO_EDGE` value on the main diagonal so the function should raise `invalid_argument` exception
4. pass an empty matrix that represent an empty graph (no vertices and no edges)
   
### `loadGraph` for Undirected Graph
same as the previous test but for an undirected graph.
in this test case I added a test to check if the matrix is symmetric or not.
so tets case 4 will pass a non symmetric matrix and the function should raise `invalid_argument` exception.


<hr>

### `printGraph`
in this test case we will check if the function will print the correct information about the graph.
<hr>

### `isConnected` for Directed Graph
to check if a directed graph is connected or not.

we have 4 tests in this file:
1. this graph is connected, and looks like this:
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A-->B;
    B-->C;
```

2. this graph is not connected, and looks like this:
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A<-->B;
    A<-->C;
    B<-->C;
    C<-->D;
    E;
```

    we can see that the the node 4 is not connected to any other node.

3. a graph with a single node, so it should be connected.


4. a graph that a have one root, what he not the first node in the matrix (so the dfs will not start from him), the function should return true.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A-->B;
    B-->C;
    C-->A;
    D-->B;
```

    in this graph the node `D` is the root, and the dfs will start from the node `A`.

5.  an empty graph, so it should be connected.
   

### `isConnected` for Undirected Graph
in undirected graph the function should return true if the graph is connected, and false otherwise.

the test are very similar to the previous test, but the graph is undirected.

1. first connected graph:
```mermaid
    graph LR;
    A --- B;
    B --- C;
```

2. not connected graph:
```mermaid
graph TD;
    A --- B;
    A --- C;
    B --- C;
    D --- C;
    E;
```

3. a graph with a single node, so it should be connected.
```mermaid
graph TD;
    A;
```

4. an empty graph, so it should be connected.

<hr>

### shortestPath

#### exceptions checks

in this test case we will check that the function will throw an exception the source node or the destination node are invalid.

<hr>

#### `shortestPath` for Directed Graph

##### unweighted graph

1. first graph:
```mermaid
    graph LR;
    A --> B;
    B --> C;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> B -> C`


2. second graph:
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A<-->B;
    A<-->C;
    B<-->C;
    C<-->D;
    D<-->E;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `E` is `A -> C -> D -> E`
    the shortest path from `A` to itself is `A`

3. a graph with no edge between the nodes, so there is no path between any two nodes.

4. send an invalid node to the function, so the function should raise an exception. (we cant send a negative node to the function)

##### weighted non-negative graph

1.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |3| B;
    B --> |1| A;
    B --> |5| C;
```

* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `3`
* the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> B -> C` with a cost of `8`
* the shortest path from `B` to `C` is `B -> C` with a cost of `5`
* there is no path from `C` to `A`
* the shortest path from `A` to `A` is `A` with a cost of `0`

2.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |100| B;
    A --> |30| C;
    C --> |25| D;
    D --> |50| E;
    E --> |21| B;
```
    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `100`

3. same graph as the previous one, but now (D,E)= 1 
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |100| B;
    A --> |30| C;
    C --> |25| D;
    D --> |1| E;
    E --> |21| B;
```
    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> C -> D -> E -> B` with a cost of `77`

##### weighted negative graph
1.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |-1| B;
    B --> |1| A;
    B --> |-5| C;
```

* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `-1`
* the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> B -> C` with a cost of `-6`
* the shortest path from `B` to `C` is `B -> C` with a cost of `-5`
* there is no path from `C` to `A`
* the shortest path from `A` to `A` is `A` with a cost of `0`


2.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |-100| B;
    A --> |-30| C;
    C --> |-25| D;
    D --> |-50| E;
    E --> |-21| B;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> C -> D -> E -> B` with a cost of `-226`

3. same as the previous one, but now (A,B) = -1000
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |-1000| B;
    A --> |-30| C;
    C --> |-25| D;
    D --> |-50| E;
    E --> |-21| B;
```

4. this graph will fail if we will run `dijkstra` algorithm, on him, but the bellman-ford will work correctly.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |0| B;
    A --> |2| D;
    A --> |-2| E;
    B --> |-1| C;
    D --> |-8| E;
    E --> |2| C;
```


    the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> D -> E -> C` with a cost of `-4`.


5. a graph with a negative cycle, so the function should raise an exception.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |-1| B;
    B --> |-1| C;
    C --> |1| A;
```

    the negative cycle is `A -> B -> C -> A`


<hr>

#### `shortestPath` for Undirected Graph

##### unweighted graph
1. first graph:
```mermaid
    graph LR;
    A --- B;
    B --- C;
```

* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B`
* the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> B -> C`
* the shortest path from `B` to `C` is `B -> C`
* there is no path from `C` to `A`
* the shortest path from `A` to `A` is `A`

2. second graph:
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    A --- C;
    B --- C;
    C --- D;
    D --- E;
```

* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B`
* the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> C`
* the shortest path from `A` to `E` is `A -> C -> D -> E`

3. empty graph, so there is no path between any two nodes.

4. graph with 3 nodes, and just A and B are connected.
    
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    C;
```

* there is no path from `A` to `C`
* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B`
* there is no path from `B` to `C`
* the shortest path from `B` to `A` is `B -> A`


#### weighted non-negative graph

1. 
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |3| B;
    B --- |5| C;
```

* the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `3`
* the shortest path from `A` to `C` is `A -> B -> C` with a cost of `8`
* the shortest path from `B` to `C` is `B -> C` with a cost of `5`
* the shortest path from `C` to `A` is `C -> B -> A` with a cost of `8`
* the shortest path from `A` to `A` is `A` with a cost of `0`

2. 
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |100| B;
    A --- |30| C;
    B --- |1| C;
    C --- |25| D;
    D --- |50| E;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> C -> B` with a cost of `31`

3. same as the previous one, but now {B,C} = 1000
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |100| B;
    A --- |30| C;
    B --- |1000| C;
    C --- |25| D;
    D --- |50| E;
```
    
        the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `100`

4. 
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |100| B;
    A --- |30| C;
    B --- |9| E;
    C --- |10| D;
    D --- |50| E;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> C -> D -> E -> B` with a cost of `99`

5. same as the previous one, but now {B,E}=10

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |100| B;
    A --- |30| C;
    B --- |10| E;
    C --- |10| D;
    D --- |50| E;
```

    the shortest path from `A` to `B` is `A -> B` with a cost of `100` or `A -> C -> D -> E -> B` with a cost of `100`

##### weighted negative graph
1. 
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- |10| B;
    B --- |-5| C;
    A --- |-1| C;
```


<hr>

### `isContainsCycle` for Directed Graph

1. graph with a cycle of 3 nodes
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> B;
    B --> C;
    C --> A;
```

2. graph with a cycle of 3 nodes
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> B;
    B --> C;
    C --> D;
    D --> B;
```

3. graph with a cycle of 2 nodes, that dont start from the first node in the matrix
```mermaid
graph TD;
    A --> B;
    C --> D;
    D --> C;
    C --> A;
```

4. connected graph without a cycle
```mermaid
graph TD;
    A --> B;
    A --> C;
    B --> C;

```

1. graph with a cycle of 3 nodes

we have more then one cycle in this graph.

```mermaid
graph TD;
    A --> B;
    A --> C;
    B --> A;
    B --> C;
    C --> A;
    C --> B;
    D --> C;
    D --> E;
    E --> D;
```

### `isContainsCycle` for Undirected Graph

> as mentioned before, this is **not** considered a cycle in an undirected graph.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
```


1. graph without a cycle
    
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    B --- C;
```

2. graph with cycle
    
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    B --- C;
    C --- A;
```

3. graph with cycle that dont start from the first node in the matrix
    
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    B --- C;
    C --- D;
    D --- B;
```
<hr>


### `isBipartite` for Directed Graph

1. a bipartite graph, that the coloring can fail if we dont color in the right way.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    B --> A;
```

### `isBipartite` for Undirected Graph


1. a graph with a odd cycle, so the function should return false.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    A --- D;
    A --- C;
    B --- C;
    C --- D;
```

2. a cycle with 4 nodes, so the graph is bipartite.

```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --- B;
    A --- D;
    B --- C;
    C --- D;
```



<hr>

### `negativeCycle` for Directed Graph

1. graph with a negative cycle of 3 nodes
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |-1| B;
    B --> |-1| C;
    C --> |1| A;
```

expected output: A -> B -> C -> A

2.
```mermaid
graph LR;
    A --> |5| B;
    A --> |3| C;
    C --> |-2| D;
    D --> |-1| E;
    E --> |-1| C;

```

expected output: C -> D -> E -> C

<!-- ### `negativeCycle` for Undirected Graph -->
